touch on a couple of things so one is I
got a couple of dm's after Devon's last
stream about IQ and I thought I would
actually just address them I would kind
of address them directly so the first is
someone was asking I would like to ask
about your claim that gaming selects for
IQ and the first question is isn't IQ an
empty statistic meaning that it doesn't
predict anything in the world and
doesn't map anything and certainly
doesn't define intelligence so the first
question is like is IQ and empty
statistic that doesn't predict anything
in the world the answer to that is no so
IQ is a predictor of many things in the
world and the next question is doesn't
in this IQ define intelligence the
answer to that question is also no so IQ
does predict to some degree success or
does predict to some degree like
correlates with like real world stuff
but I think the real problem with IQ is
that we we think about IQ in a vacuum as
being like the most important factor for
success so IQ is absolutely a real thing
so for example if you test someone a
test someone with Down syndrome and you
test their IQ you're gonna end up with a
number and the ability for that person
with Down syndrome to become a
successful attorney or investment banker
is gonna be very difficult and that's
gonna correlate with IQ so if you look
at very difficult professions like let's
say you've grabbed a group of investment
bankers from goldman sachs and you test
their IQ that's gonna correlate to the
real world like the their IQ number is
gonna correlate in some way to like how
successful they are in life
I think the biggest challenge is that
intelligence is not defined by IQ either
so we now know that intelligence is
complicated and that IQ is actually sort
of a general first stabbed by humanity
in psychology to try to gauge what is
intelligence but one of the areas that I
work in a lot is recently people have
started to grow like more and more
interested in something called EQ which
is emotional quotient or emotional
intelligence and what people are
discovering is that IQ doesn't solve
everything so just because you have an
IQ doesn't mean that you're gonna be
successful in life but there are a lot
of other things that contribute to
success in life an EQ is sort of the
most recent hot topic which is sort of
your emotional intelligence so I for
example I have an above-average IQ but I
don't think that I'm like a genius my IQ
is actually not like that far off the
charts what I do have is a very high EQ
and I think that a lot of my success is
not because I'm actually like good at
acquiring knowledge but I'm good at
understanding people so even when I work
with my colleagues like the reason that
I'm successful like in my job is because
people like me it's like if you're a
physician if you want to like do a good
job as a physician you need to have like
like the nursing staff sort of like like
you and support you and you could be as
brilliant of a physician as you want to
be but like unless the nurses and the
support stuff on the floor like you
you're like it's gonna be a really hard
job that you do so I think that it is
important to remember that IQ is
absolutely real and also doesn't tell
the whole story
second question is if we grant that IQ
measures intelligence is there any
evidence that gaming selects for it
absolutely so there was a study that was
done by that I think I can find it I'll
try to find you guys a reference you see
buddy
you
okay I'm gonna have to find the
reference for you guys but um is there a
beneath any evidence that gaming selects
for IQ absolutely and I think that the
the more I've talked to gaming a gamers
the more that I realize first of all I
do believe that gamers are average
smarter than the average population and
that's not only my personal belief and
experience and there are good reasons
for that which I'll explain in a second
but that's actually also backed up by
data so we know for example like that
there's a DoD study that was done in
2012 or 2015 I'm gonna just have to find
the reference but that actually they
tested soldiers and what they found is
that like soldiers who played video
games had a fifteen to twenty percent
higher fluid IQ than soldiers who did it
so there's like data to support this and
I think like this is really important to
understand when you talk to a gamer so
I'm gonna tell you guys a story so I was
talking to a gamer and I asked him you
know when was it that you sort of
started playing video games and what was
it about video games that you loved so
much and what he told me was that he
remembers like the like in second grade
was like when he sort of fell in love
with video games and when I asked him
like what do you remember about the
second grade he said so I went to school
and I I was in math class and the
teacher gave passed out math worksheets
and I did the math worksheet in about
ten minutes and then I walked up to the
teacher and I gave her the math
worksheet and I said okay so can I have
what's next and the teachers response
was that's all we're doing for today
you'll get the next worksheet the next
day and so he went he looked like went
and sat at his desk and like got bored
for the next 45 minutes of the class and
then what happened is he would go home
and then he would play a video game and
when he beat level one he didn't have to
wait till tomorrow to play level two
like level two is waiting for him so if
you have a smart kid what are they going
to gravitate towards are they gonna
gravitate towards a school system that
moves at the pace of the slowest child
or if you give a smart kid something
that is paced perfectly towards you that
if you fail at level one you get to redo
level one and if you beat level one
level two is there and if you beat level
two level three is there like which one
are you gonna find intellectually more
engaging like you're absolutely going to
find video
games more engaging and the far the more
you outpaced school the more attracted
to videogames you're gonna be because if
school is perfectly paced to you let's
say that you're actually kind of like
slow like I don't mean that to be
derogatory but let's say it takes you
like 50 minutes to do the math worksheet
then school is gonna kind of be paced -
and video games don't offer you anything
outside of school because you're being
intellectually challenged in kids when
they're growing up they crave
intellectual challenge that's like
there's a lot of there are a lot of
studies about this as well that like
children who are growing up crave
challenge and want to learn how to do
things and want to master things there's
this study there's this field of
psychology that's sort of dubbed intent
to mastery where people basically
figured out that like one of the most
fundamental human drives is to get
better at stuff and when you give a
child like an option like school which
doesn't really challenge them
individually and you give them an option
like a video game which is perfectly
challenging them and even after you beat
the game you can open up another game
and like start playing that and you're
challenged again so the smarter kids are
gonna gravitate towards games because
games give you that sense of challenge
and they also like give you things to
think about they give you systems to
master and so if you're hungry for that
kind of stuff if you're smart in the
real world like if you work it like
let's say you know flipping burgers or
like serving coffee at like Starbucks
like that's gonna be only so
intellectually challenging and so that's
gonna be sufficient for some people but
if it's intellectually unsatisfying and
then you have the option to play a video
game you're gonna gravitate towards that
so I absolutely do believe that like IQ
measures some degree of intelligence and
that there's evidence that gaming
selects for people who have high IQ
[Music]
and so then this goes on to the next
question about IQ isn't IQ sort of like
the DSM where researchers wanted to
figure out whether they were testing the
same thing so devise this test that
means smart but doesn't encapsulate the
whole complexity of the mind absolutely
that's exactly what they were doing so
researchers started to made some basic
observations that if you look in the
world
some people seem to be generally
speaking like more capable than other
people
that some people like someone who has
like Down syndrome for example or that
like someone is just you know they
really struggle in school like they have
trouble like problem solving they have
trouble holding jobs and that there are
some people who are who can be
successful like in generally speaking or
like just more successful so researchers
looked at the difference that there's
like a variance and intelligence within
the human population and they started
out by saying okay how can we start to
like systematically and scientifically
understand that and they developed IQ in
the second part of the question is what
doesn't encapsulate the whole complexity
of the mind and the answer to that is
absolutely yes
IQ does not incapsulate the whole like
complexity of the mind and and so that's
but we got to start somewhere right so
if we want to study something like we
have to start with the most basic
observation we can make and over time
we're going to improve and refine our
understanding of this concept so we
started with IQ and now we're moving on
to EQ and I think that if you look at
studies of Ayurveda which is like mental
health like a traditional Indian
medicine Ayurvedic goes as far as to say
that there are different kinds of
cognitive fingerprints and there are
different qualities of memory that it's
not just good memory or bad memory but
some kinds of minds learn things very
quickly but also forget things very
quickly and other kinds of minds are
slow to learn but also slow to forget
and so I think there's there's an
immense amount of complexity in
understanding intelligence but I think
IQ is a great place to start and is also
incomplete
furthermore viewing intelligence is this
instrument that people have different
efficiency rating is based on a specific
perspective intelligence ignoring all of
the relevant social economic or
educational factors that contribute to
it yes so if you look at so IQ I think
is to a certain degree somewhat
independent of social economic and
educational factors because I think
generally speaking the way that we
define IQ is sort of like raw
intellectual capability but if we look
at and some of that may be influenced by
like social and economic factors or
economical factors but what we do know
is that like those factors correlate
with like worldly success in a way that
is you know more important than IQ so
you can be like I think that I've met
poor people who have very high IQs and
I've met rich people who have very high
IQs I've met different people of
different ethnicities who have you know
very high IQs and very low IQs and when
you look at like worldly success I think
social economic and educational factors
correlate with worldly success in a way
that far outweighs IQ so the reason that
you have so many Indian doctors in the
United States so like I'm Indian or
South Asian or East Asian so like I
remember when I went to my like intern
orientation at Mass General Hospital
it's like a room of a hundred and twenty
like basically interns at Harvard
Medical School in one of the best
hospitals in the country like a third of
them were or probably 40% or maybe even
50% were either South Asian or East Asia
so like 20 percent of the room was like
Indian or Pakistani or Bangladeshi or
something like that and that vastly out
represents like Indians or like South
Asians or like maybe 1 to 2% of the
population of the United States but you
go to like internship orientation at
Mass General Hospital and it's like 20%
of the population is that because Indian
people are smarter no it's because there
was like a selection effect where my
parents are both physicians so like the
people who rose to the top of India left
and came to the United States and then
their kids not only do they have high
IQs but more importantly like my parents
were really really focused on like
instilling
me like a strong work ethic which I
rebelled against 100% became very lazy
and played like Dungeons & Dragons and
video games growing up but they tried to
really teach me a lot of stuff about the
importance of knowledge and I think even
though I ignored like 50% or like 90% of
what they said there was so much general
stuff about like the importance of
knowledge and work ethic and study that
got baked into me even though I was
rebelling against it so if we look at
real world success it has a lot more to
do with IQ it has a lot to do with
social stuff it has a lot to do with
economic stuff it has a lot to do with
family factors and IQ is still a big
part of it right because at the end of
the day if you have someone who is born
with like fetal alcohol syndrome or has
like brain damage during duda like
hypoxia during birth their capacity to
like rise to the top of a field is going
to be like heavily influenced by
something going on in their brain which
is sort of like IQ so I think IQ is
important and also insufficient and so
this goes to kind of the the next two
comments so this is kind of this guy
sharing an opinion dr. whims so he or
she I would like to know why why do you
subscribe to IQ I thought modern
psychology sociology and anthropology
have moved past IQ i subscribe to IQ
because there's an overwhelming data
that suggests that it's like a useful
metric and then the second piece is I
thought modern psychology sociology and
anthropology move past IQ yeah they have
and I have to but like let's remember
that when by moving past that we've
realized that the issues are more
complex and there are more variables at
play but IQ is still a useful like
indicator of stuff
and then this is the last and I think
most important question don't you think
telling people they are addicted to
video games because they are smart
implanting some dangerous belief about
themselves and if they are better than
others absolutely and I think it's true
right so I think that if you want to
overcome gaming addiction you need to
understand what you are and part of
understanding what you are is in
recognizing that you're probably smarter
than the average person and like this is
really important because then the next
step that you need to realize because
our vows I do ver values intelligence is
that being smarter than your neighbor
doesn't isn't enough it actually doesn't
mean [ __ ] like just because you're the
smartest kid in the room doesn't mean
you're gonna be successful but I do
think it's very important for gamers to
understand that they for the most part
they are very smart and if they can
figure out how to apply that
intelligence in the real world the sky
is the limit and I think that's really
important is it a dangerous belief
absolutely but I also believe it's a
true belief I also believe that a lot of
what holds gamers back is that they
recognize that they're smarter than
other people that gives them an ego
boost and the ego boost actually keeps
them complacent they feel like they're
better than other people so that they
don't have to work hard it's kind of
like you build this like house of cards
which is your intelligence and you
believe that you're smarter than other
people and like the simple matter is you
probably are smarter than most other
people than the average person and then
the problem is like that becomes your
escape that becomes your justification
and that becomes your source of
avoidance like since you're smarter like
what happens is the more you believe
you're smarter than other people like
that boosts your ego and then you can
like be content because all of the the
negative emotions that you get get
buried by your ego and get buried by the
idea that like oh that person may be
more successful than I am but like
they're not as smart as I am so like
that makes me feel okay about myself and
like that's the problem so I do believe
that recognizing you're intelligent is a
gamer and more intelligent than the
average person is a very important
realization and I think it's a dangerous
belief and I
think that what we have to do is not
avoid dangerous beliefs but like
recognize that we have dangerous beliefs
and then figure out how to overcome them
like that's the whole point like we want
to face the music we want to face the
problem and we want to overcome the
problem
um so I don't think we should avoid that
discussion about IQ in fact I think it's
like really important for like gamers to
understand how they're different so that
you can get into the process of like
overcoming you know what your challenges
are but you have to know what you're
dealing with like I think it's foolish
to ignore the hand that you're dealt in
life and if you have an ace when it
comes to IQ like you should absolutely
understand that because part of your
road for it is in recognizing okay like
even if I'm smarter than the average
population and if I'm stuck in life that
must mean that the answer lies somewhere
outside of IQ and I think that
recognition is one of the most important
things that a gamer can ever sort of
realize
[Music]
yeah and so I guess like I see a lot of
people sort of posting and chat about
how they were like they did
they did kind of smarter or they did
well in school they were told
they were smart and like that's what I
see like that's the experience that I
get with gamers